Converting PDF files into audio files: 

Through working on my blog posts I ran into a few minor hindrances here and there. They weren’t really “issues” so to say but at times they were very inconvenient to have to deal with. Researching for my blog was really fun because I do enjoy reading quite a bit, however, at times it was rather time consuming and not very efficient. I wanted to read and learn more about my topic through various different media types; whether that be through articles, scientific research, documentaries, videos, podcasts and books. While conducting the research I found myself leaning more towards the documentaries, videos and podcasts because ultimately I was able to multitask at the same time. I would end up watching a documentary on Netflix like “The disappearance of Madeleine McCann” or listening to a podcast on True Crime while doing the dishes, homework, cleaning, running errands and even on my long walks to campus. By that point, it has become apparent to me that multitasking is less time consuming and more efficient for my blog since I was overwhelmed with all the media I could cover and address. This is when I decided to look into the idea of finding an easier, more efficient way for me to go through the many pdf files provided online on forensic science, true crime and forensic technology. While going through a few of my options I remembered this website with an AI bot where you can paste in your paragraph and it will read it to you so you can just listen to the paragraph instead. I remember that site being a lifesaver during my highschool years because I find it rather challenging to focus on one task so I often ended up having some background noise running in the back while doing my homework or studying. As mentioned before, I love reading not only because it is a good habit to have but also because it is so much fun to me and it fills me with a lot of comfort and helps with my inattentiveness. But just like now, back in highschool I didn’t have a lot of time or money to dedicate to reading so I often resolved to using the AI audio generator bot to listen to books. I would take Edgar Allan Poe book files from the Gutenberg Project or any books I fancied at the moment and paste a page into the AI, listen to it, then delete and proceed the whole process again. Even though this was really fun and in my head that was basically free audiobooks; it was not efficient and I was only able to do so using WiFi so it was not possible for me to listen to these “audiobooks” on my way to school or when I was running errands. That’s when I realised that automating a new way for me to indulge in more books, articles and scientific research would not only be more efficient, helpful, less time consuming and more environmentally friendly than buying more books but it would also mean that I can listen to the audio version whenever and wherever I wanted to. As well as potentially pausing my Audible subscription so that I can have the option of finally eating a proper meal instead of cup noodles for the next week or so. Which brings me onto my automation project “MP3 generator”, that ultimately gets boiled down to converting pdf formats into audio files for easier access. I will automate a code to help me listen to my pdf of choice so that I can multitask and learn more about forensic technology, forensic science and the cold cases addressed in my blog. 
